 BIN List Download
Download our entire BIN database for direct use on your own systems.

You can then load the BIN data directly to RAM or import into your database of choice.
We recommend refreshing this API once per week to stay up-to-date with new BIN records.

The resulting file format is a semicolon (;) delimited CSV file with the following fields:
BIN Number
Card Brand
Card Type
Card Category
Country Code
Country Name
Issuer Name
Issuer Phone
Issuer Website
ISO 3-letter Country Code (only present if 'include-iso3' or 'include-all' is set)
ISO 3-letter Currency Code (only present if 'include-iso3' or 'include-all' is set)
Commercial/Business Card Flag (only present if 'include-all' is set)
Prepaid Card Flag (only present if 'include-all' is set)
Notes on access and handling of 8-digit BINs:
Access to this API is only available for verified Tier 3 account holders and is only available for commercial use, individual or personal use is prohibited. To request access to this API Contact Us.
You must enable the 'include-8digit' option to download 8-digit and higher BIN numbers. We recommend always enabling this option as of 2024. If your still using 6-digit BINs in production you should begin transitioning to 8-digit BINs as soon as possible due to BIN number exhaustion.
When searching the database with 8-digit BIN numbers you must implement a 'reverse search'. To do this first check for the 8-digit, 7-digit and finally 6-digit BIN numbers. This ensures you can retrieve results for older cards still using the 6-digit standard.

End Point
https://neutrinoapi.net/bin-list-download
API Request
Parameter	Required	Type	Default	Description
include-iso3	no	boolean	false	Include ISO 3-letter country codes and ISO 3-letter currency codes in the data. These will be added to columns 10 and 11 respectively
include-8digit	no	boolean	false	Include 8-digit and higher BIN codes. This option includes all 6-digit BINs and all 8-digit and higher BINs (including some 9, 10 and 11 digit BINs where available)
include-all	no	boolean	false	Include all BINs and all available fields in the CSV file (overrides any values set for 'include-iso3' or 'include-8digit')
output-encoding	no	string		Set this option to 'gzip' to have the output file compressed using gzip
API Response
CSV

API Example
curl https://neutrinoapi.net/bin-list-download \
--header "User-ID: <your-user-id>" \
--header "API-Key: <your-api-key>" \
--data-urlencode "include-iso3=false" \
--data-urlencode "include-8digit=false" \
--data-urlencode "include-all=false" \
--data-urlencode "output-encoding=" \
--output "bin-list-download.csv"
